README.md, before:

# OmiseGO
---

The [OmiseGO](https://omisego.network) iOS SDK allows developers to easily interact with a node of the OmiseGO eWallet.

# Requirements
---

- iOS 9.0+
- Xcode 9+
- Swift 4.0

# Installation
---

### CocoaPods

[CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org) is a dependency manager for Cocoa projects. You can install it with the following command:

```bash
$ gem install cocoapods
```

To integrate the `omisego` SDK into your Xcode project using CocoaPods, add the following line in your `Podfile`:

### Installation

```ruby
pod 'OmiseGO'
```

Alternatively you can also specify a tag:

```ruby
pod 'OmiseGO', '~> 0.9.3'
```

Then, run the following command:

```bash
$ pod install
```

# Usage
---

### Initialization

Before using the SDK to retrieve a resource, you need to initialize a client (`APIClient`) with an `APIConfiguration` object.
You should do this as soon as you obtain a valid authentication token corresponding to the current user from the Wallet API.

```swift
let configuration = OMGConfiguration(baseURL: "your.base.url",
                                     apiKey: "apiKey",
                                     authenticationToken: "authenticationToken")
let client = OMGClient(config: configuration)
```

Where:
`baseURL` is the URL of the OmiseGO Wallet API.
`apiKey` is the api key generated from your OmiseGO admin panel.
`authenticationToken` is the token corresponding to an OmiseGO Wallet user retrievable using one of our server-side SDKs.
> You can find more info on how to retrieve this token in the [OmiseGO server SDK documentations](https://github.com/omisego/ruby-sdk#login).

### Retrieving resources

Once you have an initialized client, you can retrieve different resources.
Each call take a `Callback` closure that returns a `Response` enum:

```swift
public enum Response<Data> {
    case success(data: Data)
    case fail(error: OmiseGOError)
}
```

You can then use a switch-case to access the `data` if the call succeeded or `error` if the call failed.
The `OmiseGOError` represents an error that have occurred before, during or after the request. It's an enum with 4 cases:
```swift
case unexpected(message: String)
case configuration(message: String)
case api(apiError: APIError)
case other(error: Error)
```
An `Error` returned by the OmiseGO Wallet server will be mapped to an `APIError` which contains informations about the failure.
> There are some errors that you really want to handle, especially the ones related to authentication failure. This may occur if the `authenticationToken` is invalid or expired, you can check this using the `isAuthorizationError()` method on `APIError`. If the `authenticationToken` is invalid, you should query a new one and setup the client again.

#### Get the current user:

```swift
User.getCurrent(using: client) { (userResult) in
    switch userResult {
    case .success(data: let user):
        //TODO: Do something with the user
    case .fail(error: let error):
        //TODO: Handle the error
    }
}
```

#### Get the addresses of the current user:

```swift
Address.getAll(using: client) { (addressesResult) in
    switch addressesResult {
    case .success(data: let addresses):
        //TODO: Do something with the addresses
    case .fail(error: let error):
        //TODO: Handle the error
    }
}
```

> Note: For now a user will have only one address so for the sake of simplicity you can get this address using:

```swift
Address.getMain(using: client) { (addressResult) in
    switch addressResult {
    case .success(data: let address):
        //TODO: Do something with the address
    case .fail(error: let error):
        //TODO: Handle the error
    }
}
```

#### Get the provider settings:

```swift
Setting.get(using: client) { (settingResult) in
    switch settingResult {
    case .success(data: let settings):
        //TODO: Do something with the settings
    case .fail(error: let error):
        //TODO: Handle the error
    }
}
```

#### Get the user's transactions:

This returns a paginated filtered list of transactions.

In order to get this list you will need to create a `TransactionListParams` object:

```swift
let params = TransactionListParams(paginationParams: paginationParams, address: nil)
```

Where
- `address` is an optional address that belongs to the current user (primary address by default)
- `paginationParams` is a `PaginationParams<Transaction>` object:

```swift
let paginationParams = PaginationParams<Transaction>(
    page: 1,
    perPage: 10,
    searchTerm: nil,
    searchTerms: nil,
    sortBy: .createdAt,
    sortDirection: .descending
)
```

Where
- `page` is the page you wish to receive.
- `perPage` is the number of results per page.
- `sortBy` is the sorting field. Available values: `.id`, `.status`, `.from`, `.to`, `.createdAt`, `.updatedAt`
- `sortDir` is the sorting direction. Available values: `.ascending`, `.descending`
- `searchTerm` is a term to search for in ALL of the searchable fields. Conflict with search_terms, only use one of them. See list of searchable fields below (same as search_terms).
- `searchTerms` is a dictionary of fields to search in: `[.from: "someAddress", .id: "someId"]`

Then you can call:

```swift
Transaction.get(
    using: client,
    params: params) { (transactionsResult) in
        switch transactionsResult {
        case .success(let paginatedList):
            //TODO: Do something with the paginated list of transactions
        case .fail(let error):
            //TODO: Handle the error
        }
}
```

The `paginatedList` here is an object

Where
- `data` is an array of transactions
- `pagination` is a `Pagination` object

Where
`perPage` is the number of results per page.
`currentPage` is the retrieved page.
`isFirstPage` is a bool indicating if the page received is the first page
`isLastPage` is a bool indicating if the page received is the last page


### QR codes

This SDK offers the possibility to generate and consume transaction requests.
Typically these actions should be done through the generation and scan of QR codes.

#### Generation

To generate a new transaction request you can call:

```swift
let params = TransactionRequestCreateParams(type: .receive,
                                            mintedTokenId: "a_token_id",
                                            amount: 13.37,
                                            address: "receiver_address",
                                            correlationId: "correlation_id")
TransactionRequest.generateTransactionRequest(using: client, params: params) { (transactionRequestResult) in
    switch transactionRequestResult {
    case .success(data: let transactionRequest):
        //TODO: Do something with the transaction request (get the QR code representation for example)
    case .fail(error: let error):
        //TODO: Handle the error
}
```

Where `params` is a `TransactionRequestCreateParams` struct constructed using:

`type`: The QR code type, only supports `.receive` for now.

`mintedTokenId`: The id of the desired token.

`amount`: (optional) The amount of token to receive. This amount can be either inputted when generating or consuming a transaction request.

`address`: (optional) The address specifying where the transaction should be sent to. If not specified, the current user's primary address will be used.

`correlationId`: (optional) An id that can uniquely identify a transaction. Typically an order id from a provider.

A `TransactionRequest` object is passed to the success callback, you can get its QR code representation using `transactionRequest.qrImage()`.

#### Scanning

You can then use the integrated `QRScannerViewController` to scan the generated QR code.

You first need to initialize the view controller using:

```swift
if let vc = QRScannerViewController(delegate: self, client: client, cancelButtonTitle: "Cancel") {
  self.present(vc, animated: true, completion: nil)
}
```

> Note: that the initialization of the controller may fail if the device doesn't support video capture (ie: the iOS simulator).

The `QRScannerViewControllerDelegate` offers the following interface:

```swift
func scannerDidCancel(scanner: QRScannerViewController) {
    // Handle tap on cancel button: Typically dismiss the scanner
}

func scannerDidDecode(scanner: QRScannerViewController, transactionRequest: TransactionRequest) {
    // Handle success scan, typically consume the transactionRequest and dismiss the scanner
}

func scannerDidFailToDecode(scanner: QRScannerViewController, withError error: OmiseGOError) {
    // Handle error
}
```

When the scanner successfully decodes a transaction request it will call its delegate method `scannerDidDecode(scanner: QRScannerViewController, transactionRequest: TransactionRequest)`.

You should use this `transactionRequest` to generate a `TransactionConsumeParams` in order to consume the request.

#### Consumption

```swift
guard let params = TransactionConsumeParams(transactionRequest: transactionRequest,
                                            address: nil,
                                            amount: nil,
                                            idempotencyToken: self.idemPotencyToken,
                                            correlationId: nil,
                                            metadata: [:]) else { return }
TransactionConsume.consumeTransactionRequest(using: client, params: params) { (transactionConsumeResult) in
    switch transactionConsumeResult {
    case .success(data: let transactionConsume):
        // Handle success
    case .fail(error: let error):
        // Handle error
    }
}
```

Where `params` is a `TransactionConsumeParams` struct constructed using:

`transactionRequest`: The transactionRequest obtained from the QR scanner.

`address`: (optional) The address from which to take the funds. If not specified, the current user's primary address will be used.

`amount`: (optional) The amount of token to send. This amount can be either inputted when generating or consuming a transaction request.
> Note that if the amount was not specified in the transaction request it needs to be specified here, otherwise the init will fail.

`idempotencyToken`: The idempotency token used to ensure that the transaction will be executed one time only on the server. If the network call fails, you should reuse the same `idempotencyToken` when retrying the request.

`correlationId`: (optional) An id that can uniquely identify a transaction. Typically an order id from a provider.

`metadata`: A dictionary of additional data to be stored for this transaction consumption.

# Tests

In order to run the live tests (bound to a working server) you need to fill the corresponding variables in the file `LiveTestCase.swift`.
```
/// Replace with yours!
var validBaseURL = ""
/// Replace with yours!
var validAPIKey = ""
/// Replace with yours!
var validAuthenticationToken = ""
```

> Note: These en can also be provided with environment variables, making it easier and safer for CI to run since you don't need to hardcode them.

The variables are:
- `OMG_BASE_URL`
- `OMG_API_KEY`
- `OMG_AUTHENTICATION_TOKEN`

You can then for example run the tests with the following command:
`xcodebuild -project OmiseGO.xcodeproj -scheme "OmiseGO" -sdk iphonesimulator -destination 'platform=iOS Simulator,name=iPhone 8' OMG_BASE_URL="https://your.base.server.url" OMG_API_KEY="yourAPIKey" OMG_AUTHENTICATION_TOKEN="yourTestAuthenticationToken" test`

# License

OmiseGO is released under the Apache license. See LICENSE for details.

Commit message:

Update list of available search terms

README.md, after:

# OmiseGO
---

The [OmiseGO](https://omisego.network) iOS SDK allows developers to easily interact with a node of the OmiseGO eWallet.

# Requirements
---

- iOS 9.0+
- Xcode 9+
- Swift 4.0

# Installation
---

### CocoaPods

[CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org) is a dependency manager for Cocoa projects. You can install it with the following command:

```bash
$ gem install cocoapods
```

To integrate the `omisego` SDK into your Xcode project using CocoaPods, add the following line in your `Podfile`:

### Installation

```ruby
pod 'OmiseGO'
```

Alternatively you can also specify a tag:

```ruby
pod 'OmiseGO', '~> 0.9.3'
```

Then, run the following command:

```bash
$ pod install
```

# Usage
---

### Initialization

Before using the SDK to retrieve a resource, you need to initialize a client (`APIClient`) with an `APIConfiguration` object.
You should do this as soon as you obtain a valid authentication token corresponding to the current user from the Wallet API.

```swift
let configuration = OMGConfiguration(baseURL: "your.base.url",
                                     apiKey: "apiKey",
                                     authenticationToken: "authenticationToken")
let client = OMGClient(config: configuration)
```

Where:
`baseURL` is the URL of the OmiseGO Wallet API.
`apiKey` is the api key generated from your OmiseGO admin panel.
`authenticationToken` is the token corresponding to an OmiseGO Wallet user retrievable using one of our server-side SDKs.
> You can find more info on how to retrieve this token in the [OmiseGO server SDK documentations](https://github.com/omisego/ruby-sdk#login).

### Retrieving resources

Once you have an initialized client, you can retrieve different resources.
Each call take a `Callback` closure that returns a `Response` enum:

```swift
public enum Response<Data> {
    case success(data: Data)
    case fail(error: OmiseGOError)
}
```

You can then use a switch-case to access the `data` if the call succeeded or `error` if the call failed.
The `OmiseGOError` represents an error that have occurred before, during or after the request. It's an enum with 4 cases:
```swift
case unexpected(message: String)
case configuration(message: String)
case api(apiError: APIError)
case other(error: Error)
```
An `Error` returned by the OmiseGO Wallet server will be mapped to an `APIError` which contains informations about the failure.
> There are some errors that you really want to handle, especially the ones related to authentication failure. This may occur if the `authenticationToken` is invalid or expired, you can check this using the `isAuthorizationError()` method on `APIError`. If the `authenticationToken` is invalid, you should query a new one and setup the client again.

#### Get the current user:

```swift
User.getCurrent(using: client) { (userResult) in
    switch userResult {
    case .success(data: let user):
        //TODO: Do something with the user
    case .fail(error: let error):
        //TODO: Handle the error
    }
}
```

#### Get the addresses of the current user:

```swift
Address.getAll(using: client) { (addressesResult) in
    switch addressesResult {
    case .success(data: let addresses):
        //TODO: Do something with the addresses
    case .fail(error: let error):
        //TODO: Handle the error
    }
}
```

> Note: For now a user will have only one address so for the sake of simplicity you can get this address using:

```swift
Address.getMain(using: client) { (addressResult) in
    switch addressResult {
    case .success(data: let address):
        //TODO: Do something with the address
    case .fail(error: let error):
        //TODO: Handle the error
    }
}
```

#### Get the provider settings:

```swift
Setting.get(using: client) { (settingResult) in
    switch settingResult {
    case .success(data: let settings):
        //TODO: Do something with the settings
    case .fail(error: let error):
        //TODO: Handle the error
    }
}
```

#### Get the user's transactions:

This returns a paginated filtered list of transactions.

In order to get this list you will need to create a `TransactionListParams` object:

```swift
let params = TransactionListParams(paginationParams: paginationParams, address: nil)
```

Where
- `address` is an optional address that belongs to the current user (primary address by default)
- `paginationParams` is a `PaginationParams<Transaction>` object:

```swift
let paginationParams = PaginationParams<Transaction>(
    page: 1,
    perPage: 10,
    searchTerm: nil,
    searchTerms: nil,
    sortBy: .createdAt,
    sortDirection: .descending
)
```

Where
- `page` is the page you wish to receive.
- `perPage` is the number of results per page.
- `sortBy` is the sorting field. Available values: `.id`, `.status`, `.from`, `.to`, `.createdAt`, `.updatedAt`
- `sortDir` is the sorting direction. Available values: `.ascending`, `.descending`
- `searchTerm` is a term to search for in ALL of the searchable fields. Conflict with search_terms, only use one of them. See list of searchable fields below (same as search_terms).
- `searchTerms` is a dictionary of fields to search in with the following available fields: `.id`, `.status`, `.from`, `.to`, `.createdAt`, `.updatedAt`. Ex: `[.from: "someAddress", .id: "someId"]`

Then you can call:

```swift
Transaction.get(
    using: client,
    params: params) { (transactionsResult) in
        switch transactionsResult {
        case .success(let paginatedList):
            //TODO: Do something with the paginated list of transactions
        case .fail(let error):
            //TODO: Handle the error
        }
}
```

The `paginatedList` here is an object

Where
- `data` is an array of transactions
- `pagination` is a `Pagination` object

Where
`perPage` is the number of results per page.
`currentPage` is the retrieved page.
`isFirstPage` is a bool indicating if the page received is the first page
`isLastPage` is a bool indicating if the page received is the last page


### QR codes

This SDK offers the possibility to generate and consume transaction requests.
Typically these actions should be done through the generation and scan of QR codes.

#### Generation

To generate a new transaction request you can call:

```swift
let params = TransactionRequestCreateParams(type: .receive,
                                            mintedTokenId: "a_token_id",
                                            amount: 13.37,
                                            address: "receiver_address",
                                            correlationId: "correlation_id")
TransactionRequest.generateTransactionRequest(using: client, params: params) { (transactionRequestResult) in
    switch transactionRequestResult {
    case .success(data: let transactionRequest):
        //TODO: Do something with the transaction request (get the QR code representation for example)
    case .fail(error: let error):
        //TODO: Handle the error
}
```

Where `params` is a `TransactionRequestCreateParams` struct constructed using:

`type`: The QR code type, only supports `.receive` for now.

`mintedTokenId`: The id of the desired token.

`amount`: (optional) The amount of token to receive. This amount can be either inputted when generating or consuming a transaction request.

`address`: (optional) The address specifying where the transaction should be sent to. If not specified, the current user's primary address will be used.

`correlationId`: (optional) An id that can uniquely identify a transaction. Typically an order id from a provider.

A `TransactionRequest` object is passed to the success callback, you can get its QR code representation using `transactionRequest.qrImage()`.

#### Scanning

You can then use the integrated `QRScannerViewController` to scan the generated QR code.

You first need to initialize the view controller using:

```swift
if let vc = QRScannerViewController(delegate: self, client: client, cancelButtonTitle: "Cancel") {
  self.present(vc, animated: true, completion: nil)
}
```

> Note: that the initialization of the controller may fail if the device doesn't support video capture (ie: the iOS simulator).

The `QRScannerViewControllerDelegate` offers the following interface:

```swift
func scannerDidCancel(scanner: QRScannerViewController) {
    // Handle tap on cancel button: Typically dismiss the scanner
}

func scannerDidDecode(scanner: QRScannerViewController, transactionRequest: TransactionRequest) {
    // Handle success scan, typically consume the transactionRequest and dismiss the scanner
}

func scannerDidFailToDecode(scanner: QRScannerViewController, withError error: OmiseGOError) {
    // Handle error
}
```

When the scanner successfully decodes a transaction request it will call its delegate method `scannerDidDecode(scanner: QRScannerViewController, transactionRequest: TransactionRequest)`.

You should use this `transactionRequest` to generate a `TransactionConsumeParams` in order to consume the request.

#### Consumption

```swift
guard let params = TransactionConsumeParams(transactionRequest: transactionRequest,
                                            address: nil,
                                            amount: nil,
                                            idempotencyToken: self.idemPotencyToken,
                                            correlationId: nil,
                                            metadata: [:]) else { return }
TransactionConsume.consumeTransactionRequest(using: client, params: params) { (transactionConsumeResult) in
    switch transactionConsumeResult {
    case .success(data: let transactionConsume):
        // Handle success
    case .fail(error: let error):
        // Handle error
    }
}
```

Where `params` is a `TransactionConsumeParams` struct constructed using:

`transactionRequest`: The transactionRequest obtained from the QR scanner.

`address`: (optional) The address from which to take the funds. If not specified, the current user's primary address will be used.

`amount`: (optional) The amount of token to send. This amount can be either inputted when generating or consuming a transaction request.
> Note that if the amount was not specified in the transaction request it needs to be specified here, otherwise the init will fail.

`idempotencyToken`: The idempotency token used to ensure that the transaction will be executed one time only on the server. If the network call fails, you should reuse the same `idempotencyToken` when retrying the request.

`correlationId`: (optional) An id that can uniquely identify a transaction. Typically an order id from a provider.

`metadata`: A dictionary of additional data to be stored for this transaction consumption.

# Tests

In order to run the live tests (bound to a working server) you need to fill the corresponding variables in the file `LiveTestCase.swift`.
```
/// Replace with yours!
var validBaseURL = ""
/// Replace with yours!
var validAPIKey = ""
/// Replace with yours!
var validAuthenticationToken = ""
```

> Note: These en can also be provided with environment variables, making it easier and safer for CI to run since you don't need to hardcode them.

The variables are:
- `OMG_BASE_URL`
- `OMG_API_KEY`
- `OMG_AUTHENTICATION_TOKEN`

You can then for example run the tests with the following command:
`xcodebuild -project OmiseGO.xcodeproj -scheme "OmiseGO" -sdk iphonesimulator -destination 'platform=iOS Simulator,name=iPhone 8' OMG_BASE_URL="https://your.base.server.url" OMG_API_KEY="yourAPIKey" OMG_AUTHENTICATION_TOKEN="yourTestAuthenticationToken" test`

# License

OmiseGO is released under the Apache license. See LICENSE for details.
